{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Menlo-Regular;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red144\green1\blue18;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red144\green1\blue18;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c63922\c8235\c8235;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;
\cssrgb\c63922\c8235\c8235;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww28600\viewh15260\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Hello! \
\
Welcome to one of Henry\'92s coding projects. \
\
The purpose of this project is to \
- convert tsv file to a .csv file \
- Go through the .csv file to do the following: \
	- obtain the on-target position \
	- obtain the number of distinct files that were analyzed \
	- Filter through the .csv file to group the editing on-target % to the specific guide as well as their respective averages. The output of the filtering process will be.a .csv file \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
\
\
INSTALLING PROGRAMS \
\
\
\
In order to use this program, you will need to have Python, Visual Studio Code, Conda, Anaconda, and Bioconda. \
\
For Conda, follow this website https://genomics.sschmeier.com/ngs-tools/ (Section 2.1) \
\
For Anaconda, follow this website https://www.anaconda.com/products/distribution\
\
For Bioconda, follow this website https://bioconda.github.io/ \
\
For Python, download it from https://www.python.org/downloads/\
\
For Visual Studio Code, https://code.visualstudio.com/download\
\
After you install all of these, you\'92ll have to change your environment in VS Code to the conda environment. For me, my environment is 3.9.13 (\'91base\'92: conda). \
For information about changing environments in  VS Code, refer to https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/python/environments. \
\
I also have a photo in the folder to show how you can change the environment in VS code. You just click on the bottom right hand corner name, and a window called \'93Select Interpreter\'94 pops up to show what you what environments you can change to. \
\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 BEFORE USING THIS PROGRAM, YOU MUST HAVE THE NAMES OF YOUR UNIQUE FILES ANALYZED BY PROGRAM_X IN A PARTICULAR FORMAT! \
\
That format is to not use periods (.) before .1, .2, etc. to distinguish between replicates \
\
For example, \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 HL_X_TF_030124_G101_Z_P52_050ng.1-FP.ab1\
HL_X_TF_030124_G101_Z_P52_050ng.2-FP.ab1\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 HL_X_TF_030124_G101_Z_P52_050ng.3-FP.ab1\
HL_X_TF_030124_G101_Z_P52_050ng.4-FP.ab1\
\
ARE ACCEPTABLE NAMES! \
\
Why? Because the file name does not use any periods up until the distinguishing character for replicates. I highly suggest that you use underscores (_) to separate between words/groups of words/other distinguishing name characteristics. \
\
Name.435_Hi.1\
Name.435_Hi.2 \
\
ARE NOT ACCEPTABLE NAMES. \
\
\
\
RIGHT BEFORE USING THE PROGRAM\
\
\
\
Right before using the program, I would suggest that you rename your tsv file and make a duplicate of your tsv file into a different folder. \
By doing so, you\'92ll still have the original tsv file somewhere on your computer, and you\'92ll be able to find your tsv file easier (with a new file location and name) \
\
\
\
\
\
USING THE PROGRAM \
\
\
\
\
The only thing you have to input is the file path of the .tsv file, which you will be prompted to do. If you spell your file path wrong, even with the smallest character change, then the program will not work and will ask you to input a correct file path. \
\
If you want to exit the program, type \'91Exit\'92 or \'91exit\'92 to escape the program. \
\
File paths have a similar structure to this example below \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 /Users/hyl025/Desktop/Python/For_Github/Sorting_through_Program_tsv_one_conc/Sorting_through_Program_test_file_and_output/One_conc_test_file.tsv\cf0 \cb1 \strokec4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf5 \cb3 \outl0\strokewidth0 \
\
\cf4 The above file was accepted by my program. \cf0 \cb1 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
In addition, the above file path is specific to my computer. It may be different on your computer. \
The / characters are used to separate folders. \
Furthermore, make sure you add .tsv at the end! That could be a reason why the program didn\'92t accept your file path. \
\
Once your tsv file path is created, then a csv file will be created of the same name of the tsv file (just the extension will be different, from .tsv to .csv). \
In addition, the terminal will state \'93Successfully converted the tsv file to a csv file!\'94 \
\
At the end of the program, if it was able to run to the end, then it will say \
\
\'93\
Compiled Data .csv file has been made successfully!\
It has the file path of [the actual file path, not surrounded by brackets]\
\
Thanks for using me! If you have any questions/concerns/comments, let Henry know! \
\
\'93 \
\
without the quotation marks. \
\
\
\
\
AFTER USING THE PROGRAM\
\
\
\
\
\
Note: The Compiled_Data .csv file should posses the correct data from the filtering. ON YOUR FIRST PASS WITH THE PROGRAM, CHECK TO MAKE SURE THAT THE .CSV FILE FILTERED THROUGH THE DATA CORRECTLY! \
\
Note 2: All files created from the program will be .csv files located in the same folder as the starting .tsv file that you started with. \
\
Note 3: The compiled data .csv file will have the same name as your original .tsv file except for the addition of _Compiled_Data.csv at the end. \
For example, if the file name was Hi_Im_working_Test.tsv, then the compiled data csv will have a name of Hi_Im_working_Test_Compiled_Data.csv\
\
The Compiled_Data.csv file will have your individual editing values for each sample and average of the on-target editing for each sample. The technical replicates of one sample group are unified into one name. \
\
\
The Compiled_Data.csv file is arranged in a way that you can copy directly from the .csv file and input it into Prism\'92s Grouped graphs. \
The only thing that requires your input is the Benching Registered gRNA Names in the column labeled as \'93Benchling Registered Name (User inputted).\'94\
If you want to use a XY graph, then you would transpose the data with the individual editing values. \
\
\
\
\
If you have any questions, concerns, comments, etc., let Henry know! Thanks for using this program and godspeed to your analysis! \
\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf0 FOR REFERENCE, I HAVE ADDED A SAMPLE TSV AND THE OUTPUTS FROM RUNNING THE PROGRAM. 
\f0\b0 \
}